The Jerusalem channel is made with the support of you, our viewers.
Thank you for watching.
Holding profound significance for believers in the risen Lord Jesus is the concept of the rapture.
The glorious moment when both deceased believers and those of us who are still alive will be subtly snatched up to the Lord in the air.
This imminent event is vividly described in the Bible in 1 Thessalonians 4, 16 and 17.
For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with a voice of the archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first.
Then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so will always be with the Lord.
Many professing believers, unfortunately, scoff at the pre-tribulational rapture.
But there's a remnant who anticipate this imminent event.
And for us, it's essential to be spiritually prepared and also to guard our physical and mental health.
I'm preaching first to myself today, but I hope you'll also be blessed by my thoughts.
Shalom, I'm Christine Dark.
The catching up or rapture is alluded to in the New Testament as a mystery.
Paul wrote to believers in 1 Thessalonians 15, behold, I'm going to tell you a mystery.
We're not all going to die, but we'll all be changed.
In a moment, he said, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, for the trumpet will sound and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed.
After experiencing many dreams about this glorious event called the Rapture, it's always been my art and hope to be alive when Jesus comes to snatch away his bride.
And indeed, we're surrounded by all the signs that he is coming soon.
By doing our best to maintain our health, we will position ourselves to live fully in service to God until that glorious day suddenly arrives.
The scripture is emphasized that our bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit, and that obedience to God brings blessings of well-being and mental health.
Of course, a foundational aspect of physical health is proper nutrition.
This Bible encourages us to view food as a blessing from God, but it also warns against gluttony and excess.
We have to make a conscious effort to practice portion control
and to avoid processed foods, high in sugar, and artificial additives as well.
A number of Bible-based diet books extol Mediterranean-style whole foods such as the What Would Jesus Eat Cookbook.
In it, Dr. Don Colbert examined what Jesus would have eaten based upon Bible foods such as olive oil, whole grains, fish, honey, fruits, and vegetables.
Evangelist Ray Comfort has published the ultimate health foods, nine foods Jesus ate or recommended, tying them to modern health benefits.
He listed honey, butter, not margarine, fish, lamb, beef, or veal as in the fatted calf, salt, eggs, figs, bread, and chicken.
Hydration, of course, is equally important to drink plenty of water to support bodily functions.
The Bible reminds us that exercise and healthy eating honor God and hopefully will sustain us until the trumpet sounds.
Scripture reinforces the link between obedience and health.
Exodus 23, 25 is a key verse.
You shall serve the Lord your God and He will bless your bread and your water.
And then He promises to take away sickness from among you.
Additionally, in Exodus 15, 26,
God said, if you will diligently listen to the voice of the Lord your God and do that which is right in his eyes and give ear to his commandments and keep all of his statutes, then he said, I will put none of the diseases on you that I put on the Egyptians for I am the Lord your healer.
Somebody joked saying that they'd been twice to the gym already, once to join in the second time to renew their membership.
My husband and I have joined a gym because everybody knows that exercise is vital for maintaining strength, flexibility, and cardiovascular health.
I believe in moderation, but do try to incorporate more steps and stairs into our daily routine.
Regular activity reduces the risk of chronic diseases.
And in our fast-paced world, rest is often overlooked, yet it's also vital for overall health.
My husband and I aim for seven to nine hours of quality sleep and try to establish a consistent sleep schedule despite interruptions from travel and jet lag.
It's important to incorporate Sabbath rest days to recharge and to avoid burnout.
In fact, Charlie Kirk's last word to the world before his tragic assassination was his book Stop in the Name of God, Why Honoring the Sabbath Will Transform Your Life.
Yes indeed, Isaiah 5811 highlights the restorative power of following God's guidance.
The Lord promises to guide you continually to be like a well-watered garden.
It's also important to have a goal of cultivating joy and gratitude daily.
This fosters emotional resilience.
Proverbs 1722 declares, A cheerful heart is good medicine.
But a crushed spirit dries up the bones.
A sound mind equips us to watch especially for the rapture without being weighed down by anxiety and the cares of this world.
As John the Apostle wrote in three John two, Beloved, I pray that you may prosper in all things and be in health, even as your soul prospers, amen.
Well, no, I'd like to share wisdom from cardiologists alphine M. Rani
Concerning our words and how words shape not merely our mood, but are the very architecture of our brains.
A former teacher came to him complaining and he said he listened to her speak 11 times uttering the phrase, I just can't seem to, like I just can't seem to focus.
I can't seem to remember.
I can't seem to feel like myself and so forth.
Dr. M. Ronnie said he was not describing her condition.
She was prescribing it.
Her nervous system, that obedient and literal Oregon, was doing precisely what it was told to do.
You see, a word once uttered becomes an event in the body, is heard by our own ears, and literally registered as real.
A single negative utterance lands with a weight that a dozen affirmations just can't counterbalance.
Autoimmunity is a condition where the
immune system mistakenly attacks the body's own healthy cells, tissues, and organs, rather than protecting us against foreign invaders like viruses or bacteria.
Dr. M. Ronnie said, think of negativity as verbal autoimmunity, self-attacking the self through our own words.
He observed that the patient who says, I'm falling apart, is in effect issuing a command
You see, the body just can't distinguish metaphor from instruction, so it begins to comply.
In short, we can become fluent in our own destruction if we're not careful.
The phrases we often repeat can become neurological grooves, the paths of least resistance.
And so the person who has said 10,000 times, I am no good at this, finds the thought as automatic as breathing, not because it's true, but because it's routine.
What then can be done to fix these automatic outbursts?
First, let's make a deliberate effort to notice phrases that habitually tumble out of our mouths.
You may be astonished to discover how much of your daily conversation amounts to small curses, tiny prophecies of defeat, spoken casually without notice.
Secondly, and this is harder, let's determine to interrupt the pattern.
Let's catch the negative utterances before they cross from thought into speech.
In this practice, something remarkable happens.
The negative thought is denied its usual pathway and begins to loosen its grip.
Unfired, the neutral circuit weakens.
Starved of repetition, negativity begins to atrophy.
You see, silence is not empty.
It's a form of editing.
It's a refusal to ratify something bad.
a patient recovering from a stroke, told Dr. Imrani he felt he had been given a second chance in life, not just to communicate, but to choose his words wisely.
He realized that he had been speaking carelessly all of his life, but through affliction he had stumbled upon an ancient truth that's expressed in one of my favorite Bible verses, Proverbs 1821, death and life are in the power of the tongue.
This verse affirms that our words have immense power to create positive or destructive outcomes, to bring blessings or curses, healing our harm to ourselves and others.
And ultimately, we experience the consequences of our speech.
So this video today is a call to speak life, love, and encouragement rather than negativity, because our speech shapes our reality and relationships.
Let's learn to treat our words like medicine,
some words healed, in other words, poison.
Dr. M. Ronnie said that we're all physicians of ourselves, and the tongue is the most potent instrument in our physician's bag.
Or it can be the most dangerous, depending entirely on how we use our tongues.
Meanwhile, the Harvard Medical School's Journal of Psychosomatic Research recently described how verbal suggestions and negative narratives impact our immune function.
The journal also affirmed that words in mindset matter biologically.
Shifting from negative self-narratives like, I'm always tired to positive ones like, I'm resting and recovering, can help support better outcomes.
Although of course it's not magic, and severe health issues do still demand special attention.
But if you're the type of person to constantly repeat, I feel bad, I'm exhausted, or I'm old,
Science is now describing those phrases as neurobiological programming.
You see, our cells don't have ears, but they have chemical receptors that pick up every signal sent by our brain.
If we speak out of lack or talk about disease, we're sending a direct order to our system and our bodies are simply wired to obey our voice.
Just as positive thinking can heal,
Constant negative affirmations release an immediate cascade of stress hormones that work against our immune shield.
Negative language is, in practice, a self-administered poison that withers vitality from within.
The Harvard Journal confirmed the notion that normalizing phrases of defeat or weakness trains your nervous system to operate in a state of constant survival.
Ignoring the consequences of negative words is why so many medical treatments fail.
But the journal also firm that we can rewire our biological response by changing our narratives.
That's why it's so important to speak the word of God constantly to initiate cellular repair functions.
Well, research from Harvard University confirmed that using constructive language not only improves mood,
but optimizes heart rate and strengthens inflammatory responses, demonstrating that words are biological engineering tools.
So now to summarize, how do we re-program ourselves?
First of all, the research says, identify the poison.
Become aware of your speech habits, like saying, this is killing me.
For example, I refuse to buy any food or drink in the grocery store packaged with a word death.
like restaurants serving death by chocolate desserts.
Next, change phrases like, I feel terrible to something like, this body of mine is working on healing.
Amazingly, research has labeled the wake up window, meaning your first words of the day program your morning chemistry.
So as you open your eyes, avoid complaining, which unknowingly can shoot up a spike of unnecessary cortisol.
I find it interesting that upon awakening, a practicing Jew is taught immediately to offer a prayer of thanks.
Their first words of the morning express gratitude to God, affirming faith in a new day.
Also, determine to surround yourself with narratives and people that add vitality to your life, where research shows that even the negative words of others can affect our own internal chemistry.
And stop saying, it runs in the family.
The Lord has given us authority and power to break generational curses.
Amen.
Now, speaking of the power of the spoken word, I like to use a biblical affirmation.
It is well with my soul.
Your body may be well enough, but how's your soul?
Is your soul well?
I'd like to tell you the true story of overcoming severe hardships and the power of the spoken word behind the beloved hymn.
It is well with my soul.
This faith filled him was written by Horatio Spafford.
He founded the American colony in Jerusalem, where we've been privileged to minister for many years.
And I've seen the original handwritten text of his lyrics.
In the late 19th century, Spafford was a successful lawyer living in Chicago in the United States.
By all appearances, life had been generous to him.
He enjoyed a thriving legal practice, a loving marriage to his wife, Anna, and they had five beautiful children.
as well as a solid faith that shaped their home.
Yet, their seemingly ideal world was shattered.
First, in 1871, disaster struck when the great Chicago fire ravaged their city, destroying much of Spafford's real estate investments.
As he struggled to recover from financial ruin, another more personal tragedy followed.
The death from Scarlet Fever of his four-year-old son, Horatio Jr.
grief filled their household, but the spaffards clung firmly to their faith, trusting God as their refuge in sorrow.
Two years later, hoping for rest and spiritual renewal, the family planned a journey to Europe to join their close friend, the renowned evangelist Dwight Moody, for a revival tour.
At the first moment, urgent business matters delayed Horatio, and he sent Anna ahead with their four daughters.
But midway across the Atlantic, tragedy struck again.
Their steamship collided with another vessel and sank within minutes.
Only a few passengers survived.
Anna was rescued unconscious on floating wreckage, but all four of their daughters were drowned.
Upon arrival in Cardiff Wales, Anna sent her husband a heartbreaking telegram saying, saved alone.
Well, overcome with grief,
Horatio immediately boarded another ship to reunite with his bereaved wife.
And as the vessel passed near where his daughters had perished, he took out a sheet of Chicago's stationery and penned these words.
When peace, like a river at a tinneth my way, when sorrows like sea billows roll, whatever my lot thou hast taught me to say, it is well, it is well with my soul.
Has God taught you to say it as well with your soul?
Or better still, have you taught yourself to say it's well with my soul?"
The ratio of Spafford was quoting 2 Kings 4, 26 in the Hebrew Bible.
Words of a Shunomite woman following the tragic death of her son by faith she had the presence of mine to respond to the prophet Elisha in his well because her faith was not diminished and her son was raised from the dead by Elisha's prayers.
spaffords him as a profound declaration of faith born in the depths of anguish.
It's a testimony to unwavering trust in God in the middle of life's fiercest storms.
Out of their brokenness, Horatio and Anna, decided to move to Jerusalem to watch Bible prophecy unfold and to pray.
And there they opened the famous American colony, both as a Christian community, hospital, and house a prayer.
Today it's a Swiss
run boutique hotel whereby the grace of God our ministry has continued their work of prayer for all of the peoples of the region.
Spafford's time was hymn has brought comfort to millions reminding us that even when everything around us is dark and desperate divine peace is available to steady our souls.
I particularly appreciate the two closing stanzas of Spafford's hymn because he possessed revelation about the rapture.
The penultimate stanza goes like this, Lord, his for thee, for thy coming we wait, the sky, not the grave is our goal.
O Trump of the angel, O voice of the Lord, blessed hope, blessed rest of my soul.
Those are the words of a real man of God.
He unashamedly looked forward to the rapture.
How many preachers can say that today?
Unfortunately, many preachers tragically are denying the rapture at a time when it's very imminent.
But in his hymn, Spafford quoted, Titus 2, 13, Our Blessed Hope, the appearing of the glory of a great God and Savior, Jesus the Messiah.
And the final stanza goes like this, And Lord, hasteth the day when faith shall be sight, The clouds be rolled back as a scroll, The trump shall resound, and the Lord shall descend,
A song in the night, oh, my soul.
That stanza put into poetry, 1 Corinthians 1552, which declares that we shall be changed in a flash in the triggering of an eye at the last trumpet.
For the trump will sound, the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed."
Well, my friend, no matter what this week has brought, choose my faith to rejoice in the goodness of the Lord.
Rejoicing is an act of faith.
Rejoicing puts an immediate stop to stress.
You see, when we praise God, He honors our faith, doors open, our strength is renewed, and our hope rises again.
One of the most powerful passages for our health is found in Psalm 103, which proclaims, blessed the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all His benefits.
So what is the Lord's benefit package?
The Psalm says, He forgives all of our iniquities and heals all of our diseases.
God's blessings include both forgiveness and physical healing.
But notice that forgiveness is mentioned first.
It's important to ask for forgiveness on a regular basis and to keep a clean conscience before God.
Then we can boldly approach the Lord's throne by faith to make a request known to Him with thanksgiving.
And God promises to renew our strength like the eagles.
As we await the coming of the Lord, I want to share a powerful key to supernatural strength.
From time to time, I try to encourage myself with the example of the man of God, A.
B. Simpson, who was founder of the Christian and Missionary Alliance.
After a long sickness, Simpson learned to live supernaturally by drawing strength from the Lord's indwelling presence.
This revelation caused him to shift from self-effort to moment by moment dependence on the Lord within as his constant supply of life, healing, and power.
after his own miraculous recovery from a severe heart condition, Simpson vowed to trust God fully for his health.
And that's what we are doing today.
You and I are trusting God for our health.
From that time forward, Simpson drew supernatural vitality from the Lord's indwelling presence, enabling vigorous ministry despite a past history of being frail.
What a revelation, what a change.
Simpson taught and practiced this deeper life
applying the Lord's fullness to spirit, soul, body, mind, and will.
Overcoming exhaustion, temptations, and physical weaknesses, not somehow through stored-up faith, but by literally breathing in the Lord's life afresh.
The result was sustained service, including the ability to open missions, healing homes, and educational institutions that reached thousands.
In essence, Simpson's supernatural existence stemmed from
appropriating Colossians 1, 27 in the New Testament.
That first declares Christ in you the hope of glory.
And that was the secret of power.
Now, that's not poetic language.
It's not a metaphor.
It's to be believed literally that the risen Lord Jesus comes when we're born again to live inside us, inside consecrated believers.
So A.B.
Simpson was greatly blessed to discover how to yield entirely to the Lord's inner presence for all of his needs.
He learned to glorify God through a life of effortless rest and divine enablement rather than human striving.
This approach of living by the faith of the Son of God not only healed his body but empowered his global evangelistic efforts.
True strength flows from union with arisen Lord.
flowing and flooding away disease and infirmity with the Lord's perfect life.
Now then we also have to learn to keep up our emotional strength and not allow it to be drained.
A friend asked me for example how I would handle aggressive or argumentative persons on social media and I replied that my general rule on engaging with argumentative souls is usually I allow somebody to contradict me twice and I attempt to answer them politely twice
But if they continue aggressively, then it's three strikes and they're out.
That's my rule to maintain my sanity, my time and my energy.
After all, some people are not teachable and only want to argue.
So we have to know by the spirit whom to answer.
Let's teach our children and grandchildren in the meantime to pray.
Should the Lord Terry, we may not be around for their entire lives, but God will.
Children also need the supernatural power of God.
The enemy has a plan for the last days, lies, confusion, depression, death and destruction.
It's clear the enemy is after our children.
They face situations we never had to face.
If there ever was a generation that needs the power of God, it's this generation.
God foresaw the technological age and the dangers of artificial intelligence.
Thankfully, God's plan for the last days is a mighty outpouring of His Holy Spirit.
You see, the Bible promises your sons and your daughters shall prophesy and see visions.
So with all the upheaval going on in this world, you may be asking yourself, what is this world coming to?
And my answer to you is exactly what Jesus said it would be when he described the end time birth pains.
That means he is coming soon.
So today, do something positive for which your future self will be grateful.
Practice portion control.
consciously speak positive affirmations of faith, and most of all, receive the Savior of the universe into your heart so you can draw from His holy power.
May I ask, do you know the Lord?
Jesus has Messiah and Savior.
No other God bled for us, no other God came to save us.
Jesus, Yeshua is His Hebrew name.
He alone heals us from the curse of eternal death.
There's salvation and no other,
He alone died for our sins as our mediator before God, and He was raised from the dead.
He was foretold by the Hebrew prophets.
He alone is the way, the truth, and the life of God.
He invites all of us to come to Him, to escape the terrible judgments cataloged in the book of Revelation.
So if you've not yet confessed Jesus as Lord, I urge you to call in His name and believe that He is the Son of God who died for our sins and rose from the dead.
And then the Bible promises, you shall be saved and you'll be ready for the soon and sudden appearing of the Lord.
That's our blessed hope.
Amen.
In the meantime, I'd love to hear from you on social media or through our free Jerusalem channel, mobile app.
Please follow all of my articles at substack.com and all of our videos at our Jerusalem channel, YouTube platform, as well as our own website, exploits.tv.
where you have the opportunity to support our broadcast and humanitarian outreaches financially.
Finally, we invite you to sign up for our weekly email alert called exploits based upon Daniel 1132, which declares the people who know God will be strong, not weak, and will accomplish biblical exploits.
That's the works of the Lord in the remaining time before his imminent return.
Come on, let's keep contending for the face and praying earnestly for the peace of Jerusalem.
I'm Christine Darg, Shalom and Maranatha.